.TH FONTDATABASE 5
.SH NAME
FontDataBase \- database of fonts accessible to t1lib.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page has been written for the Debian GNU/Linux
distribution.  It has been adapted from the documentation included in
the upstream
.B t1lib
distribution.
.PP
.B /etc/t1lib/FontDataBase
is a text file which contains, minimally, the basenames of Type 1 font 
files to be made accessible to the
.B t1lib
font rasterizer library.  The format is intentionally similar to that
of the
.B fonts.dir
and
.B fonts.scale
files used by X11.
.PP
Line 1 of this file contains a positive integer specifying the number
of fonts declared in that file. This is as in the
.B fonts.dir
files of the X11 system.
.PP
All remaining lines contain declarations of one font each. The only
thing taken from such a line is the last string (delimited by white
space) in it. It is assumed to be a filename of the format
\fIbasename\fR.\fIsomeextension\fR.
.PP
The \fIbasename\fR part is assumed to be the
.BR basename (1)
of a fontfile.  After the a string has been parsed, the
.I extension
is cut off and replaced in turn with
.I .pfa
and
.I .pfb.
The initialization routine tries to open a font file in
its search path with one of the resulting filenames.
.PP
The remainder of the line, i.e., from beginning to the start of the
filename string, is completely ignored and thus may contain
information for other programs.
.SH EXAMPLES
Here is a minimal font database file for 4 fonts:
.sp
.nf
4
isvl.afm
isvli.afm
isvd.afm
isvdi.afm
.fi
.PP
This file is \fIminimal\fR, because it contains just the information
needed, and nothing not needed by the library. 
.PP
Here is a more realistic example, which allows an application to match
a fully qualified X11 fontname to a FontID in
.B t1lib.
This is also a valid font database file:
.sp
.nf
4
Souvenir Souvenir-Light       --- \-itc-souvenir-light-r-normal--#-0-0-0-p-0-iso8859-1 isvl.afm
Souvenir Souvenir-LightItalic -*- \-itc-souvenir-light-i-normal--#-0-0-0-p-0-iso8859-1 isvli.afm
          Souvenir-Demi       *-- \-itc-souvenir-demi-r-normal--#-0-0-0-p-0-iso8859-1 isvd.afm
          Souvenir-DemiItalic **- \-itc-souvenir-demi-i-normal--#-0-0-0-p-0-iso8859-1 isvdi.afm
.fi
.PP
.SH FILES
.I /etc/t1lib/FontDataBase
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR mkfontdir (1x)

