.TH XGLYPH 1
.SH NAME
xglyph \- demonstration program for the t1lib font rasterizer library.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xglyph
[
.B fontfile...
]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This manual page documents briefly the
.BR xglyph
program.
This manual page was written for the Debian GNU/Linux distribution
because the original program does not have a manual page.
.PP
.B xglyph
is a program which demonstrates the capabilities of the
.B t1lib
library.  It allows the user to view an arbitrary character or string
rendered in the various ways pgossible with the library.  By default,
it writes a log file named \fIt1lib.log\fR in the current directory.
.PP
If invoked with no arguments, it will attempt to read the global
configuration file and font database.  It will also accept any number
of filenames on the command line, in which case these are treated as
font files to be loaded instead of the default font database.
.SH "OPTIONS"
.TP
.BR \-\-help
Shows a brief help text
.TP
.BR \-\-Help
Shows a description of all options
.TP
.BR \-\-noGrid 
Don't draw grid lines when displaying glyphs
.TP
.BR \-\-setPad 
Set bitmap padding
.TP
.BR \-\-logError
Log errors only
.TP
.BR \-\-logWarning
Log errors and warnings
.TP
.BR \-\-logStatistic
Log errors, warnings, and statistics
.TP
.BR \-\-logDebug
Log just about everything
.TP
.BR \-\-ignoreForceBold
Don't make pseudo-boldface glyphs
.TP
.BR \-\-ignoreFamilyAlignment
.TP
.BR \-\-ignoreHinting
Ignore hints when scaling glyphs
.TP
.BR \-\-debugLine
Show debugging info for line-drawing
operations in the rasterizer
.TP
.BR \-\-debugRegion
Show debugging info for region operations in
the rasterizer
.TP
.BR \-\-debugPath
Show debugging info for path operations in the
rasterizer
.TP
.BR \-\-debugFont
.TP
.BR \-\-debugHint
Show debugging info for hinting in the rasterizer.
.TP
.BR \-\-checkPerformance
Do some simple performance tests while rasterizing.
.TP
.BR \-\-checkCopyFont
Check that copying fonts works.
.TP
.BR \-\-checkConcatGlyphs
Check that concatenating glyphs works.
.TP
.BR \-\-checkBadCharHandling
.TP
.BR \-\-checkDefaultEncoding
Set a default encoding vector.
.SH "ENVIRONMENT"
In the Debian GNU/Linux version of this program, the environment
variable
.B T1LIB_CONFIG,
if set, points to an alternate configuration
file with which to initialize the library.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR FontDataBase (5),
.BR t1libconfig (8).
.PP
.B xglyph
is much more fully documented in the LaTeX documentation that
accompanies the upstream
.B t1lib
distribution.  This documentation is installed in PostScript and source
formats with the t1lib-dev package in /usr/share/doc/t1lib-dev, and is
also accessible through the dwww system.
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by David Huggins-Daines
<dhd@debian.org>, for the Debian GNU/Linux system (but may
be used by others).
